{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Code for the article\
\'ab\'a0Switches from tonic to burst firing enable memory consolidation through late-phase synaptic plasticity\'a0\'bb\
by Kathleen Jacquerie, Danil Tyulmankov, Pierre Sacre, Guillaume Drion. \
\
The scripts are mainly written by Kathleen Jacquerie. \
Caroline Minne, Juliette Ponnet, and Nora Benghalem worked on this code for their master theses.\
\
\
Each Figure from the article is associated with a corresponding folder. \
Each folder is divided into the same structure: \
/data - contains the parameter used to generate the simulation\
/julia - main scripts to run the simulations. \
All computational experiments are launched thanks to a *Simu_... .jl* calling a function with the differential equations of the conductance-based models (neuronal model) and the synaptic weight change (plasticity rules) found in *model_... .jl*. \
/matlab - codes to analyze and plot the network simulations. \
\
disclaimers: \
l_ij is indicated at g_AMPA_ij \
\
### Fig1\
JULIA: Simulate a network of neurons with /julia/Simu_scenario_GB2012.jl\
\ul Inputs\ulnone \
gion.dat: intrinsic parameters of the neurons\
gsyn.dat: initial parameters of the late weights\
neurons_freq.dat: frequencies associated with each neuron at the different states.\
\
\ul Outputs\ulnone \
- Voltage recordings\
- Firing pattern properties\
- LFP recordings\
- Synaptic weight recordings\
\
MATLAB: Plot traces and quantify firing pattern properties with /matlab/Fig1_plotV.m \
\
### Fig2_MNIST_long\
JULIA: Simulate the pattern learning task in different configurations of switches and plasticity rules:\
Figure 2B: Simu_MNIST_GB2012.jl\
Figure 2C: Simu_MNIST_GB2012_learn.jl\
\ul Inputs\
\ulnone digit_presented.dat: contains the sequence of digits sequentially learned during the simulation. \
idx_presented.dat: contains the index of the sample learned at each state picked from the dataset. \
neurons_freq.dat: frequencies associated with each neuron at the different states.\
neurons_freq_learn.dat: same but for the additional tonic firing states (figure 2C)\
\
\ul Outputs\ulnone \
w_state.dat: values of the early weights at the end of each state. \
g_state.dat: values of the late weights at the end of each state. \
\
MATLAB: \
RF_MNIST.m: code to obtain the weight matrix in the image\
RF_MNIST_corr.m: code to compute the correlation between the mean dataset (saved in mean_MNIST_20.dat for Figure 2D and mean_MNIST_learn.dat for Figure 2E)\
\
### Fig3\
JULIA: Simulate the evolution of the early weight for several switches of firing activities. \
Simu_scenario_GB2012_RESET.jl associated with Figure 3AB\
Simu_TUNE.jl associated with Fig SI for one tonic firing state followed by three burst firing states with different hyperpolarizing currents. \
\
\ul Inputs\
\ulnone gion.dat: intrinsic parameters of the neurons\
gsyn.dat: initial parameters of the late weights\
neurons_freq.dat: frequencies associated with each neuron at the different states.\
\
\ul Outputs\ulnone \
- Voltage recordings\
- Firing pattern properties\
- LFP recordings\
- Synaptic weight recordings\
\
MATLAB\
Fig3AB.m: code to obtain w(t), histograms, and scatter plot - different forms of normalization are encoded. \
Fig3C_tune.m: code associated with SIMU_TUNE.jl\
\
\
### Fig3_Demo \'97 Fig SI\
JULIA\
Simu_Graupner2016.jl  code used to simulate the evolution of the early weight for the model of Graupner et al. 2016. \
Simu_PairBased.jl code used to simulate the evolution of the early weight in the Pair-Based model. \
This simulation can be done with parameter sets obtained from the cortex (CTX) or the hippocampus (HPC) [region] depending on the paper. The weight dependency can be soft-bound (SB) or hard-bound (HB) [bound_type]. \
\
\ul Inputs\
\ulnone gion.dat\
gsyn.dat\
neurons_freq.dat\
\
\ul Outputs\ulnone \
- Voltage recordings\
- Firing pattern properties\
- Synaptic weight recordings\
\
MATLAB\
Fig3_Demo_SB.m for Fig SI is associated with the analytical prediction of the converging point. \
set new_curves =1 to generate new traces. The code takes time since it loads all the data. \
This code traces the scatter plot. It also compares the analytical prediction and the simulation values. \
\
###  Fig3_Model \'97 Fig SI\
JULIA\
Simu_XX.jl runs the different simulations for the model \'ab\'a0XX\'a0\'bb (can be Graupner, Deperrois, \'85). \
\
MATLAB\
Fig3_scatter_SB.m retrieves the scatter plot for soft-bound models\
Fig3_scatter_HB.m retrieves the scatter plot for hard-bound models\
\
\
### Fig4\
JULIA\
Simu_scenario_GB2012.jl: code for Fig4B\
Simu_scenario_GB2012_RESET.jl: code for Fig4C\
Simu_scenario_GB2012_noBURST.jl: code for Fig4D\
\
\ul Inputs\ulnone \
gion.dat\
gsyn.dat\
neurons_freq.dat\
\
\ul Outputs\ulnone \
- Voltage recordings\
- Firing pattern properties\
- Synaptic weight recordings\
\
MATLAB\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Fig4_wl.m plot traces of the early weights, late weights, and total weights. \
\
### Fig4_MNIST\
go to folder Fig2_MNIST_long because it replicates these figures with different combinations of switches and plasticity. \
Figure 4E is associated with the code Simu_MNIST_GB2012_RESET.jl\
Figure 4F is accociated with the code Simu_MNIST_GB2012_noBURST.jl\
\
\
### Fig5\
JULIA\
Simu_SNR_GB2012_VAR.jl simulates the network with different initial conditions for eta. \
Disclaimer: eta=1/tau or 1/tauG\
and l(0) is gCAMPA. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Inputs\ulnone \
gion.dat\
gsyn.dat\
neurons_freq.dat\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Outputs\
\ulnone w_BACK: early-weight at the end of each state. \
g_BACK: late-weight at the end of each state.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
MATLAB\
Fig5_var_quantif.m plots the evolution of the SNR for the different parameter conditions and compute the category between the four microscopic trends. \
\
### Fig 6\
Comparison between 2012 model (folder: Graupner2012) and 2016 model (folder: Graupner2016) between non-overlapping patterns (folder: nOL) and overlapping patterns (folder: OL). \
\
JULIA\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Simu_nOL_GB2012.jl: code to simulate 2012 model with non-overlapping patterns. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Simu_OL_GB2012.jl: code to simulate 2012 model with overlapping patterns. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Simu_nOL_GB2016.jl: code to simulate 2016 model with non-overlapping patterns. \
Simu_OL_GB2016.jl: code to simulate 2016 model with overlapping patterns. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\ul Inputs\ulnone \
/\
\
\ul Outputs\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \ulnone w_state8: early-weight at the end of each state. \
g_state8: late-weight at the end of each state.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
MATLAB\
Fig6_RF.m: code to obtain Figure Eiii, Eiv, Fiii, Fiv for the weight matrices. Change the name of the experiment  [model] (\'ab\'a0Graupner2012\'a0\'bb, \'ab\'a0Graupner2016\'a0\'bb) or the [experiment_name]  (\'ab\'a0OL\'a0\'bb, \'ab\'a0nOL\'a0\'bb)\
Fig6_quantif.m: code to obtain the correlation traces. \
\
\
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
}